1)  Manage computer resources, establish user interface, execute and provide
    services for application software

2)  Having an GUI can be considered a waste of resources, since the GUI doesn't
    improve the system's efficiency in any way. However it makes the interaction
    with the human operator easier, more intuitive and pleasant. This is an 
    example of such trade offs. If the resources are allocated towards something
    that makes the system easier to use or more accessible to the human operator,
    they are not wasted. At the end of the day the system is supposed to support
    the human operator, not the other way around.

3)  Real time systems must be very responsive and active. The programmer must
    find a way to ensure that no clock cycles are wasted processing signals
    or inputs. Failure to complete a task in the allocated time constraint
    might cause the whole system to crash. This means that scheduling times
    must enforce response times to respect the time constraint.

4)  The system should include such applications in order to provide the user
    with the programs and utilities he needs in order to perform the tasks
    he wants to. The system should not include such applications in order to
    allow the user the liberty to install whichever he likes best or feels
    more appropriate to the job at hand - this would also make the system
    lighter and easier to install.
    The presence of these programs is really dependent on the proficiency
    the user may or may not have with computing systems If a user is looking
    for a utility tool to help him in his everyday work, he will probably
    want the applications installed along with the system. If the user is
    looking for a more custom-built, specialized system, chances are he will
    appreciate not having applications previously installed

5)  Kernel mode locks away certain system operations from the user. This means
    that operations that access lower level resources, like memory in the case
    of installing a program, will require an extra layer of authorization in 
    order to be executed. This not only makes the system sturdier against external
    attacks, but also add adds a confirmation layer when certain commands are
    being run. The user might've made a mistake when running said command and
    this extra layer will make it much easier and safer to undo it.

6)  Issue a trap instruction, since these signal errors.

7)  This scheme would make it very hard to update the operating system - the
    machine would have to be formatted and the system reinstalled every time 
    an update had to take place. It would also make the operating system 
    extremely rigid - not only would the source code be locked, but it would
    be impossible to change any module, like device drivers. 

8)  Priviledged mode can be used during bootstrap, in order to access the ROM,
    or in special system-related modifications, like kernel updates. User mode
    can be used to run processes and manipulate registers.

9)  The timer can be set to generate interrupts at a given frequency. We can
    use a counter to keep track of how many interrupts have been generated
    and use modular arithmetic to figure out when a second has passed. This
    way we can keep track of time, provided an inital time reference - like
    the time when the CPU was first plugged in - is provided.

10) Caches allow us to access resources without the need to read them from
    physical memory. Since physical memory has much slower access then volatile
    memory the presence of a cache adds up to a great increase in system 
    speed, as well as a decrease in CPU cycles spent fetching data from the disk.
    Caches also allow us to keep frequently used data in volatile memory, there-
    fore avoiding unecessary disk accesses. 
    The biggest problem with cache is what should we keep i cache memory. This
    is usually solved by fecthing the blocks around the block we want to, 
    and layering the data so that less used data gets rewritten upon fetch.
    Volatile memory is much more expensive then non-volatile memory. Computers
    with a cache as large as a disk would be outside of the price range of most
    users.

11) Client-server has a client which requests data from a server, which in turn
    sends the data. It's a hierarchical model where one side asks and the other
    provides. Peer-to-peer is a more horizontal model, where each connected
    machine can ask and send information to any other machine in the system.

12) Corruption of shared files and denial of service. Yes. We can configure files
    permissions so that user X cant access the private files of any other use 
    and implement a job scheduler that ensures no deadlocks happen

13)
  a) Memory, CPU, storage, bandwith
  b) memory, CPU
  c) power consumption, memory

14) If the user is working on a large task that's handled by a team and dependent
    on the contributions of different team members, a time-sharing system may be
    better for him, if said system is fast enough to accomodate both his and the
    team's needs and able to get the job done.

15) In symmetric multiprocessing all processors execute all tasks - usually the
    job scheduler allocates tasks to the available CPU's in such a way that 
    minimizes CPU idle time. In asymmetric multiprocessing each CPU is responsible
    for a set of tasks he must perform, and sits idle if no such tasks are ready
    to be processed. Multiprocessor systems allow us to run several programs in
    parallel, they are much more efficient compared to a uniprocessor system - the
    system can continue to process data while it waits for I/O or such, and can save
    money by duplicating power supplies, housing and peripherals. However they are 
    more complex to implement, both hardware-wise and software-wise

16) Clustered systems are systems made up of different machines working together 
    towards a goal, while multiprocessing can happen in the same machine. The machines
    working together must have shared data space and have a way to synchronize them-
    selves as to make sure the shared data stays updated and uncorrupted

17) The cluster can either keep track of which entities are stored in each node, 
    through a lookup table for example. This method relies on a very simple mapping
    and is quite straight forward to implement, but database access would incurr in
    some extra overhead each time a query was made - the process would have to figure
    out which database to query - and lost data could not be retrieve.
    The cluster could also duplicate the data between each node, with one of the nodes
    acting as a backup. In this case there would be no overhead in queries, since
    it wouldn't matter which machine was queried, and data could be retrieved if an
    error shower up. We would only be using half our total storage space tho.

18) A personal computer is an independent machine on it's own, while a network 
    computer relies on a server to perform certain tasks. A network computer acts 
    as a terminal/entry point to a server. They usually have reduced memory and 
    computin gpower. A network computer is advantageous in closed systems, or when
    performing tasks that demand computation capabilities unavailable to a normal
    personal computer.

19) Interrupts send a signal to the CPU that interrupts the execution of the current
    process. The CPU stops said execution to handle the interrupt, then proceeds
    with the task it was performing. A trap is a system exception that signals 
    something was wrong, while an interrupt just signals something has happened -
    for example, some I/O peripheral has received input. Yes, if the proper system 
    calls are invoked. The purpose is to signal the OS some critical task has to be
    performed.

20)
    a) The CPU communicates with the device through the device drivers
    b) Either through an interrupt or through a system flag
    c) If it's implemented as a background task, no. If it's not, it might force
       the user to wait for it to finish, if the system is single-threaded.

21) It would require the programmer to hardcode safety measures. However, all 
    systems fail eventually, and we can never assert that 100% of the possible
    entryways are covered.

22) 

23)

24)

25) 

26)
    a. LAN 
    b. WAN 
    c. WAN

27) Mobile devices don't have as much memory or computing power. The programmer
    also has to take in account power consumption and even heating, since the
    cooling mechanisms of these devices tend to be rudimentar. The OS should be as
    light as possible in order to take up little space. it should also be light 
    and implement all the functionalities the user might need - for example, 
    camera drivers, networks, contact information etc etc. 

28)

29) Torrents are a good example. Trafic apps are also good - the app can use each 
    peer as a node and derive information like trafic flow, accidents etc. Chat
    applications also work great on p2p systems. Bitcoin mining and blockchain
    are modern revolutionary technology based on p2p.

30) Open source operating systems allow the user to recompile de kernel with his 
    prefered configurations. They are very flexible and freely extendable. An user 
    can experiment with memory management, file system managemente and all kinds of 
    operating system tasks, thus customizing the system to his liking. Programmers
    and operating systems enthusiasts will prefer these types of systems, since they
    allow experimentation and modification. They usually have more bugs, but faster
    bugfixes, since there's a larger community working on them. These users might
    also find the process of finding and fixing bugs interesting and rewarding.
    Closed source operating systems are more stable. Updates take more time, but
    are expected to work upon release. These systems were most likely tested and
    employ tried-and-true mechanisms to manage resources, along with built-in security.
    More casual users who want an OS that works fine off the shelf will appreciate
    these kinds of systems, since the maintenance won't lay on their shoulders.
